Why Bytecoin is Better than the Alternatives
============================================

Bytecoin is a cryptocurrency that is backed by a commodity with market value - the contributions which can be used to mine bytecoins can also be sold on a network market, a feature which tethers the value of bytecoin to the value of disk storage. This should give bytecoin a much more stable price than bitcoin. Because bitcoin has no inherent value, the price of bitcoin is set purely by the supply and demand of the coin. When people are feeling like using bitcoin as a store of value or as an investment, the price of bitcoin is going to be high. When people do not trust the value of bitcoin to remain high, they will sell their bitcoins and fulfill their prophecy. Bytecoin on the other hand is an economy with an entirely different dynamic. Miners contribute disk storage to the bytecoin network, which is a commodity that is sold over the network. Miners then have two sources of income, the bytecoins they get for doing the mining and the bytecoins that they get for selling disk storage. If the value of bytecoin drops significantly, the disk storage contributed to the network by the miners will be very cheap. This disk storage can only be bought with bytecoins, and because cloud disk storage is a valuable commodity, demand for bytecoins will go up so that consumers can take advantage of the cheap disk space. When the value of the bytecoin bubbles, the reward for mining will be very high, which will encourage a lot of miners to join the network. All of the fresh disk space will increase the actual value of the network, which will raise the baseline value of bytecoin so that it more closely matches the bubble price. This will prevent crashes from being as severe as the bitcoin crashes.

The other features are not yet clearly defined in the high level paper explaining how bytecoin works, but I will mention them anyway because I believe that I will be able to find a way to incorporate them.

The first thing I will mention is Zerocoin, because I believe that there is a fairly significant amount of demand for zerocoin and no popular cryptocurrency currently has a decent implementation. Because the core transaction model of bytecoin is not much different from the transaction model of bitcoin and somebody already has a funcitonal way to attatch zerocoin into bitcoin, attactching zerocoin to bytecoin should be nearly copy-paste. There is also a good chance that the other features listed below will make zerocoin a lot easier and more lightweight, but I do not actually know how zerocoin works so I cannot be certain.

The second thing I want to mention is conditional spending, a feature that I believe will turn out to have many many uses. There are two obvious ways to use conditional spending. The first is inside of the bytecoin market. Storage can only be bought one month at atime, and prices could potentially vary dramatically from month to month. Conditional spending can be used to automatically stop spending on disk storage if the price gets too high. The other way is to create risk free transactions with other networks. For example, bytecoin will most likely be aware of the bitcoin block chain. Conditional spending can then be used to set up risk free trades between bitcoins and bytecoins. The owner of bytecoins would put in a conditional spend saying "If John gives me 12 bitcoins and the transaction is confirmed by 6 bitcoin blocks, then give John 250 bytecoins." John can look at the bytecoin block chain and find this conditional spend. John then knows that if he sends me 12 bitcoins, the bytecoin network will automatically him 250 bytecoins. And I know that if John does not give me 12 bitcoins before the conditional spend expires, I will get my bytecoins back. Thus both of us can complete the transaction without a third party and without incurring any risk.

I also believe that I have found a model that will enable bytecoin to support very high block speeds under certain, easily obtained conditions. Transactions can be confirmed into the network in milliseconds, instead of the 10 minute, 2.5 minute, and even 1 minute of other existing cryptocurrencies. This same model should also allow for a very diverse set of constraints on the file storage on the network, such as filestorage at a minimum bandwidth, filestorage at a minimum latency, etc.

Finally, the cloud storage model provided by bytecoin is likely to be the cheapest cloud storage platform achieveable with current technology. Bytecoin should be able to sell disk space for easily 1/3 the current dropbox prices, and most likely less than 1/20 the current dropbox prices. This is because bytecoin uses a distributed model that has automatic redundancy and very little overhead. It also benefits from the crowd sourcing effect, and can also piggyback off of the inherent value of the network.

And as a one-last-remark, bytecoin is hopefully going to have some way to support anonymous file storage and retrieval through the use of a high-latency protocol. I really have no idea where to start for this one, so it is not actually a promised feature, just something that I think might be possible, and something that I intend to pursue once the rest of the currency is in good shape.
